Add multicast documents (#4339)
antrea-io/antrea: docs/multicast-guide.md

# Multicast User Guide

> Antrea supports Multicast traffic in the following scenarios:

Author: updated

> 1. Pods to Pods, any Pod that has joined the multicast group should receive the traffic from the Pod senders send multicast traffic to that group.

Reviewer: Probably change "any Pod" to "a Pod"

> 1. Pods to Pods, any Pod that has joined the multicast group should receive the traffic from the Pod senders send multicast traffic to that group.

Author: updated

> 2. Pods to External, external hosts connected to the Node will receive the multicast traffic from that local Pods.

Reviewer: external hosts can receive the multicast traffic sent from Pods, when the Node network supports multicast forwarding / routing to the external hosts.

Author: updated

> 3. External to Pod, multicast traffic sent by external hosts connected to the Nodes will be received if some local Pods have joined the multicast group.

Reviewer: Use active voice to be consistent with the first two points: "Pods can receive the multicast traffic from external hosts."

Reviewer: I feel no need to repeat "joined the multicast group" every time. Readers understand that.

Author: updated

> 4. Mixture of cases from 1,2,3.

Reviewer: We can remove this one.

Author: updated

## Table of Contents

> <!-- toc -->

Reviewer 2: Please run `make verify` locally and fix the issue.

Author: updated

  - [Inbound and Outbound traffic statistics of multicast](#inbound-and-outbound-traffic-statistics-of-multicast)
  - [Multicast Networkpolicy Statistics](#multicast-networkpolicy-statistics)
- [Use example](#use-example)
- [Limitations](#limitations)
  - [Traffic in Local Network Control Block](#traffic-in-local-network-control-block)
  - [Linux kernel](#linux-kernel)
  - [Encap mode](#encap-mode)
<!-- /toc -->

## Prerequisites

`Multicast` is introduced in v1.5 as an alpha feature. The feature gate
`Multicast` must be enabled in the `antrea-controller` and `antrea-agent`
configuration.

```yaml
  antrea-controller.conf: |
    featureGates:
    # Enable multicast traffic.
      Multicast: true
  antrea-agent.conf: |
    # Enable multicast traffic.
      Multicast: true
    multicast:
    # The names of the interfaces on Nodes that are used to forward multicast traffic.
    # Defaults to transport interface if not set.
      multicastInterfaces: 

    # The interval at which the antrea-agent sends IGMP queries to Pods.
    # Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
      igmpQueryInterval: "125s"
```

> ## Multicast Networkpolicy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Multicast NetworkPolicy
```
Please check other `Networkpolicy`, it should be `NetworkPolicy`

Author: updated

Antrea NetworkPolicy and Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy are supported for the following types of multicast traffic:
1. IGMP egress rules: IGMP membership report and IGMP leave group messages.
2. IGMP ingress rules: IGMP query, which includes IGMPv1, IGMPv2, and IGMPv3.
3. Multicast egress rules: non-IGMP multicast traffic from Pod to other Pods or external hosts.

> Multicast ingress rules are currently not supported.

Reviewer 2: Add a new line before this.
```suggestion
Note: multicast ingress rules are currently not supported.
```

Author: updated

> Examples: [ACNP for IGMP traffic](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/antrea-network-policy.md#acnp-for-igmp-traffic) and [ACNP for multicast egress traffic](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/docs/antrea-network-policy.md#acnp-for-multicast-egress-traffic). Please also check the meanings of special fields for Multicast Networkpolicies from the paragraphs below these examples.

Reviewer 2: Ditto, please also wrap lines in this doc.

Author: updated

## Debugging and Collecting Multicast Statistics

> Users could use these tools to get the current status of the multicast application running in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users could check following guides and corresponding tools to get the current status of the multicast application running in the cluster.
```

Author: updated

> ### Pods join multicast group information

Reviewer: Sometimes you capitalize section tiles, sometimes you do not. Please be consistent.

Author: updated

> ### Pods join multicast group information

Reviewer: Just say "Pod multicast group information"

Author: updated

This command prints the cluster-wide information of Pods that has joined multicast group throughout the whole cluster. Example:

```bash
kubectl get multicastgroups
GROUP       PODS
225.1.2.3   default/mcjoin, namespace/pod
224.5.6.4   default/mcjoin
```

> ### Inbound and Outbound traffic statistics of multicast

Reviewer: Inbound and outbound multicast traffic statistics

Author: updated

Please refer to the corresponding [antctl page](antctl.md#multicast-commands).

> ### Multicast Networkpolicy Statistics

Reviewer: NetworkPolicy

Please change all occurrences.

Author: updated

[Antrea Networkpolicystats](feature-gates.md#networkpolicystats) also apply to multicast Networkpolicy.

> ## Use example

Reviewer: Use case example

Author: updated

> In this example, we will show how multicast video steaming works in Antrea using [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/).

Reviewer: In this section

Author: updated

> To start a sample video streaming server, we create a Pod streaming sample video to the multicast IP address: 239.255.12.42 with TTL 6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start a sample video streaming server, we create a Pod streaming sample video to the multicast IP address `239.255.12.42` with TTL 6.
```

Author: updated

```bash
kubectl run -i --tty --image=quay.io/galexrt/vlc:latest vlc-sender -- vlc --intf ncurses --vout dummy --aout dummy sample-video.mp4 --sout udp:239.255.12.42 --ttl 6 --repeat

> ```

Reviewer 2: Add new line after this.

Author: updated

> You are expected to see outbound multicast traffic from this Pod by running `antctl get podmulticaststats` from Antrea Agent local to this Pod, which means the Pod is sending video streams outside the Pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's expected to see outbound multicast traffic from this Pod by running `antctl get podmulticaststats` from Antrea Agent local to this Pod, which means the Pod is sending video streams outside the Pod.
```

Author: updated

You will also find a multicast route, which indicates traffic from Antrea gateway to the transport interface by running `ip mroute`.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
```

Author: updated

ip mroute
(pod-ip, 239.255.12.42)     Iif: antrea-gw0 Oifs: transport interfaces State: resolved
```

A sample client is created as well with the following command:

```bash
kubectl run -i --tty --image=quay.io/galexrt/vlc:latest vlc-receiver -- vlc --intf ncurses --vout dummy --aout dummy udp://@239.255.12.42 --repeat
```

> You are expected to see outbound multicast traffic from this Pod by running `antctl get podmulticaststats` from the Antrea Agent local to this Pod, which means the Pod is able to receive the video stream. Also, kubectl command `kubectl get multicastgroups` will print that vlc-receiver has joined multicast group 239.255.12.42.

Reviewer 2: You are expected -> It's expected

Author: updated

## Limitations

This feature is currently only supported for IPv4 Linux clusters. Support for Windows and IPv6 will be added in the future.

> ### Traffic in Local Network Control Block

Reviewer 2: Add a new line after this.

Author: updated

> Multicast IP that in [Local Network Control Block](https://www.iana.org/assignments/multicast-addresses/multicast-addresses.xhtml#multicast-addresses-1)(224.0.0.0/24) should work only in encap mode. Multicast traffic destined for that IPs are not expected to be forward, therefore, no multicast route will be configured, and external hosts are not working either.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multicast IP that in [Local Network Control Block](https://www.iana.org/assignments/multicast-addresses/multicast-addresses.xhtml#multicast-addresses-1) (224.0.0.0/24) should work only in encap mode. Multicast traffic destined for that IPs are not expected to be forward, therefore, no multicast route will be configured, and external hosts are not working either.
```

Author: updated

> ### Linux kernel

Reviewer 2: new line missing

Author: updated

> You may find some traffic is not routed if the Node environment meets the following specifications:

Reviewer 2: ditto

Author: updated

1. Node kernel version under 5.4
2. Node network doesn't support IGMP snooping

> 3. Lots of multicast traffic with group IPs that won't be received by the Node(not Pod has not joined that group in that Node)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Lots of multicast traffic with group IPs that won't be received by the Node (not Pod has not joined that group in that Node)
```

Author: updated

> ### Encap mode

Reviewer 2: ditto

Author: updated

> In encap mode, Multicast packets sent from Pod cannot be forwarded to more than one network interface on the host. Therefore Pods to external hosts multicast is not supported in encap mode.

Reviewer 2: Multicast -> multicast

Author: updated

# Multicast User Guide

Antrea supports multicast traffic in the following scenarios:

> 1. Pods to Pods - a Pod that has joined a multicast group will receive the multicast

Author: updated

   traffic to that group from the Pod senders.

> 2. Pods to External - external hosts can receive the multicast traffic sent from Pods,

Author: updated

   when the Node network supports multicast forwarding / routing to the external hosts.
3. External to Pod - Pods can receive the multicast traffic from external hosts.

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Multicast NetworkPolicy](#multicast-networkpolicy)
- [Debugging and collecting multicast statistics](#debugging-and-collecting-multicast-statistics)
  - [Pod multicast group information](#pod-multicast-group-information)
  - [Inbound and outbound multicast traffic statistics](#inbound-and-outbound-multicast-traffic-statistics)
  - [Multicast NetworkPolicy statistics](#multicast-networkpolicy-statistics)
- [Use case example](#use-case-example)
- [Limitations](#limitations)
  - [Traffic in local network control block](#traffic-in-local-network-control-block)
  - [Linux kernel](#linux-kernel)
  - [Encap mode](#encap-mode)
<!-- /toc -->

## Prerequisites

> `Multicast` is introduced in v1.5 as an alpha feature. The feature gate

Author: updated

> `Multicast` is introduced in v1.5 as an alpha feature. The feature gate

Author: updated

`Multicast` must be enabled in the `antrea-controller` and `antrea-agent`

> configuration.

Author: updated

```yaml
  antrea-controller.conf: |
    featureGates:
    # Enable multicast traffic.
      Multicast: true
  antrea-agent.conf: |
    # Enable multicast traffic.
      Multicast: true
    multicast:
    # The names of the interfaces on Nodes that are used to forward multicast traffic.
    # Defaults to transport interface if not set.
      multicastInterfaces: 

    # The interval at which the antrea-agent sends IGMP queries to Pods.
    # Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
      igmpQueryInterval: "125s"
```

## Multicast NetworkPolicy

Antrea NetworkPolicy and Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy are supported for the following
types of multicast traffic:

> 1. IGMP egress rules: IGMP membership report and IGMP leave group messages.

Author: updated

> 2. IGMP ingress rules: IGMP query, which includes IGMPv1, IGMPv2, and IGMPv3.

Author: updated

> 3. Multicast egress rules: non-IGMP multicast traffic from Pod to other Pods or external hosts.

Author: updated

> Note: multicast ingress rules are currently not supported.

Author: updated

> Examples: [ACNP for IGMP traffic](antrea-network-policy.md#acnp-for-igmp-traffic) and

Author: updated

[ACNP for multicast egress traffic](antrea-network-policy.md#acnp-for-multicast-egress-traffic).

> Please also check the meanings of special fields for Multicast NetworkPolicies from the paragraphs

Author: updated

below these examples.

## Debugging and collecting multicast statistics

> Users could check following guides and corresponding tools to get the current status of

Author: updated

the multicast application running in the cluster.

### Pod multicast group information

> This command prints the cluster-wide information of Pods that has joined multicast group

Author: updated

> throughout the whole cluster. Example:

Author: updated

```bash

> kubectl get multicastgroups

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ kubectl get multicastgroups
```

Author: updated

GROUP       PODS
225.1.2.3   default/mcjoin, namespace/pod
224.5.6.4   default/mcjoin
```

### Inbound and outbound multicast traffic statistics

> Please refer to the corresponding [antctl page](antctl.md#multicast-commands).

Reviewer: `antctl` supports printing multicast traffic statistics of Pods. Please refer to the corresponding [`antctl` user guide section]

Author: updated

### Multicast NetworkPolicy statistics

> [Antrea NetworkPolicystats](feature-gates.md#networkpolicystats) also apply to multicast NetworkPolicy.

Reviewer: The Antrea NetworkPolicyStats feature

Reviewer: applies

multicast NetworkPolicies

Author: updated

## Use case example

In this section, we will show how multicast video steaming works in

> Antrea using [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/).

Author: updated

> To start a sample video streaming server, we create a Pod streaming sample video

Reviewer: To start a video streaming server

Reviewer: we start a VLC Pod to stream a sample video

Author: updated

to the multicast IP address `239.255.12.42` with TTL 6.

```bash
kubectl run -i --tty --image=quay.io/galexrt/vlc:latest vlc-sender -- vlc --intf ncurses --vout dummy --aout dummy sample-video.mp4 --sout udp:239.255.12.42 --ttl 6 --repeat
```

> It's expected to see outbound multicast traffic from this Pod

Reviewer: You can verify multicast traffic is sent out from the this Pod by...

Author: updatd

> by running `antctl get podmulticaststats` from Antrea Agent local to this Pod,

Reviewer: in the `antrea-agent` Pod on the local Node

Author: updated

> which means the Pod is sending video streams outside the Pod.

Reviewer: the VLC Pod

means -> indicates

outside the Pod -> out

Author: updated

> You will also find a multicast route, which indicates traffic from Antrea gateway

Reviewer: You can also check the multicast routes on the Node by running command `ip mroute`, which should print the following route for forwarding the multicast traffic from the Antrea gateway interface to the transport interface

to the transport interface by running `ip mroute`.

```bash
ip mroute
(pod-ip, 239.255.12.42)     Iif: antrea-gw0 Oifs: transport interfaces State: resolved
```

> A sample client is created as well with the following command:

Reviewer: We also create a VLC Pod to be the receiver with the following command

Author: updated

```bash
kubectl run -i --tty --image=quay.io/galexrt/vlc:latest vlc-receiver -- vlc --intf ncurses --vout dummy --aout dummy udp://@239.255.12.42 --repeat
```

> It's expected to see outbound multicast traffic from this Pod by running

Reviewer: outbound -> inbound

to this Pod

Author: updated

> `antctl get podmulticaststats` from the Antrea Agent local to this Pod,

Reviewer: in the local `antrea-agent` Pod

Author: updated

> ip mroute

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ ip mroute
```

Author: update

> which means the Pod is able to receive the video stream.

Reviewer: which indicates the VLC Pod is receiving

Author: updated

> (pod-ip, 239.255.12.42)     Iif: antrea-gw0 Oifs: transport interfaces State: resolved

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(<POD IP>, 239.255.12.42)     Iif: antrea-gw0 Oifs: <TRANSPORT INTERFACES> State: resolved
```

Author: updated

> Also, kubectl command `kubectl get multicastgroups` will print that `vlc-receiver`

Reviewer: the `kubectl get multicastgroups` command

print -> show

Author: updated

has joined multicast group `239.255.12.42`.

## Limitations

This feature is currently only supported for IPv4 Linux clusters.
Support for Windows and IPv6 will be added in the future.

### Traffic in local network control block

> Multicast IP that in [Local Network Control Block](https://www.iana.org/assignments/multicast-addresses/multicast-addresses.xhtml#multicast-addresses-1) (224.0.0.0/24)

Reviewer: IP that in -> IPs in

Author: updated

> should work only in encap mode. Multicast traffic destined for that IPs

Reviewer: Antrea encap mode

Reviewer: that IPs -> those addresses

Author: updated

> are not expected to be forward, therefore, no multicast route will be configured,

Reviewer: forwarded

will be configured for them

Author: updated

> and external hosts are not working either.

Reviewer: The sentence is too long. Suggest to start a new one: ". External hosts are not supposed to send and receive traffic with those addresses either.".

Author: updated

> Configuration `multicastInterfaces` is not supported with encap mode.

Reviewer: Configuration option

Author: updated

### Linux kernel

> You may find some traffic is not routed if the Node environment meets the following specifications:

Reviewer: "If you observe multicast traffic is not routed, check if the following situations apply to your Nodes"

Or "If the following situations apply to your Nodes, you may observe multicast traffic not routed correctly".

Author: updated

> Multicast packets in encap mode are SNATed and forwarded to transport interface only.

Reviewer: to the transport interface

Author: updated

1. Node kernel version under 5.4

> 2. Node network doesn't support IGMP snooping

Reviewer: Just say "IGMP", or "IGMP or multicast routing"

Author: I suggest use IGMP snooping explicitly here to indicate problems may occur with igmp snooping off or not supported https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/smb/switches/cisco-350x-series-stackable-managed-switches/smb5814-configure-igmp-switch-cli.html. "IGMP", or "IGMP or multicast routing" sounds vague to me.

Reviewer: No strong opinion here. But IGMP snooping is just one way to support multicast switching, and multicast rouing requires a routing protocol like PIM.

> 3. Lots of multicast traffic with group IPs that won't be received by the Node

Reviewer: I do not understand this sentence. Could you rephrase?

Author: updated. This limitation can be detailed described by 
```
busy networks with lots of unresolved
multicast routing entries, the creation of new multicast group routes
can be extremely slow and unreliable.
```
and resolved in this commit in Linux kernel https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/0079ad8e8dc3a4d1af0dd4a53345580a6947beba

   (no Pod has not joined that group in that Node)

### Encap mode

> In encap mode, multicast packets sent from Pod cannot be forwarded to more than one

Reviewer: from a local Pod

Author: updated

> network interface on the host. Therefore Pods to external hosts multicast is not supported

Reviewer: interfaces

on the Node

Reviewer: We should talk about the issue first. So, move "Multicast traffic from Pods to external hosts is not supported in encap mode" to be the first sentence.

I feel we can remove the reason sentence, but if you want to keep it" "This is because ..."

Author: updated. Reason sentence removed.

> should work only in Antrea encap mode. Multicast traffic destined for those addresses

Reviewer 3: should work only in Antrea encap mode? I feel it's "can only work in encap mode". @jianjuns

Author: I don't understand your point here. Could you explain more?

Basically we has tested some simple cases for MDNS(224.0.0.251) and it works as expected in encap mode. The other multicast service running in 224.0.0.0/24 are not tested comprehensively, therefore may not work as expected.

Reviewer: @tnqn means changing "should" to "can". I agree "can" sounds better here.

Author: updated. Thanks

Antrea supports multicast traffic in the following scenarios:

1. Pod to Pod - a Pod that has joined a multicast group will receive the multicast
   traffic to that group from the Pod senders.
2. Pod to External - external hosts can receive the multicast traffic sent from Pods,
   when the Node network supports multicast forwarding / routing to the external hosts.
3. External to Pod - Pods can receive the multicast traffic from external hosts.

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Multicast NetworkPolicy](#multicast-networkpolicy)
- [Debugging and collecting multicast statistics](#debugging-and-collecting-multicast-statistics)
  - [Pod multicast group information](#pod-multicast-group-information)
  - [Inbound and outbound multicast traffic statistics](#inbound-and-outbound-multicast-traffic-statistics)
  - [Multicast NetworkPolicy statistics](#multicast-networkpolicy-statistics)
- [Use case example](#use-case-example)
- [Limitations](#limitations)
  - [Encap mode](#encap-mode)
  - [Traffic in local network control block](#traffic-in-local-network-control-block)
  - [Linux kernel](#linux-kernel)
<!-- /toc -->

## Prerequisites

> Multicast support is introduced in v1.5.0 as an alpha feature. The feature gate

Reviewer: in Antrea v1.5.0

Author: updated

configuration to use the feature, and two new configuration options -
`multicastInterfaces` and `igmpQueryInterval` parameters are added for `antrea-agent`.

```yaml
  antrea-controller.conf: |
    featureGates:
    # Enable multicast traffic.
      Multicast: true
  antrea-agent.conf: |
    # Enable multicast traffic.
      Multicast: true
    multicast:
    # The names of the interfaces on Nodes that are used to forward multicast traffic.
    # Defaults to transport interface if not set.
      multicastInterfaces: 

    # The interval at which the antrea-agent sends IGMP queries to Pods.
    # Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
      igmpQueryInterval: "125s"
```

## Multicast NetworkPolicy

Antrea NetworkPolicy and Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy are supported for the following
types of multicast traffic:

1. IGMP egress rules: applied to IGMP membership report and IGMP leave group messages.
2. IGMP ingress rules: applied to IGMP query, which includes IGMPv1, IGMPv2, and IGMPv3.
3. Multicast egress rules: applied to non-IGMP multicast traffic from the selected Pods to other Pods or external hosts.

> Note: multicast ingress rules are currently not supported.

Reviewer: "are not supported at the moment"

Reviewer: Maybe `Note:` -> `Note,`

Author: updated

Examples: You can refer to the [ACNP for IGMP traffic](antrea-network-policy.md#acnp-for-igmp-traffic)
and [ACNP for multicast egress traffic](antrea-network-policy.md#acnp-for-multicast-egress-traffic)
examples in the Antrea NetworkPolicy document.

## Debugging and collecting multicast statistics

Antrea provides tooling to check multicast group information and multicast traffic statistics.

### Pod multicast group information

The `kubectl get multicastgroups` command prints multicast groups joined by Pods in the cluster.
Example output of the command:

```bash
kubectl get multicastgroups
GROUP       PODS
225.1.2.3   default/mcjoin, namespace/pod
224.5.6.4   default/mcjoin
```

### Inbound and outbound multicast traffic statistics

`antctl` supports printing multicast traffic statistics of Pods. Please refer to the corresponding [antctl user guide section](antctl.md#multicast-commands).

### Multicast NetworkPolicy statistics

> [The Antrea NetworkPolicyStats feature](feature-gates.md#networkpolicystats) also applies to multicast NetworkPolices.

Reviewer: applies to -> supports

> [The Antrea NetworkPolicyStats feature](feature-gates.md#networkpolicystats) also applies to multicast NetworkPolices.

Reviewer: Nit: maybe move `The` out of the link.

The [Antrea NetworkPolicyStats feature](feature-gates.md#networkpolicystats)

Author: updated

## Use case example

> [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/) is an open source multimedia player, it can be used for video streaming.

Reviewer 4: I think we can remove the company information if Antrea is not officially claimed to being or used to be used by the peer?

Reviewer: I would not talk about VLC in the first paragraph, which is just a minor thing as a tool we used in the example.

How about:
> This section will take multicast video streaming as an example to demonstrate how multicast works with Antrea. In this example, [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/) multimedia tools are used to generate and consume multicast video streams.

In this section, we will show how multicast video steaming works in
Antrea using VLC.

To start a video streaming server, we start a VLC Pod to stream a sample video
to the multicast IP address `239.255.12.42` with TTL 6.

```bash
kubectl run -i --tty --image=quay.io/galexrt/vlc:latest vlc-sender -- vlc --intf ncurses --vout dummy --aout dummy sample-video.mp4 --sout udp:239.255.12.42 --ttl 6 --repeat
```

> You can verify multicast traffic is sent out from this Pod

Reviewer: Could you align the ends of lines.

Author: updated

by running `antctl get podmulticaststats` in the `antrea-agent` Pod on the local Node,

> which indicates the VLC Pod is sending video streams out.

Reviewer: is sending out multicast video streams

Author: updated

You can also check the multicast routes on the Node by running command `ip mroute`,
which should print the following route for forwarding the multicast traffic from
the Antrea gateway interface to the transport interface.

```bash
ip mroute
(pod-ip, 239.255.12.42)     Iif: antrea-gw0 Oifs: transport interfaces State: resolved
```

We also create a VLC Pod to be the receiver with the following command:

```bash
kubectl run -i --tty --image=quay.io/galexrt/vlc:latest vlc-receiver -- vlc --intf ncurses --vout dummy --aout dummy udp://@239.255.12.42 --repeat
```

It's expected to see inbound multicast traffic to this Pod by running
`antctl get podmulticaststats` in the local `antrea-agent` Pod,
which indicates the VLC Pod is receiving the video stream.

Also, the `kubectl get multicastgroups` command will show that `vlc-receiver`
has joined multicast group `239.255.12.42`.

## Limitations

> This feature is currently only supported for IPv4 Linux clusters.

Reviewer: supported only for IPv4 Linux clusters.

Author: updated

Support for Windows and IPv6 will be added in the future.

### Encap mode

> Multicast traffic from Pods to external hosts is not supported in encap mode.

Reviewer 4: We should support Pod-to-external multicast traffic in encap mode. The only limitation is we do not support multiple multicast interfaces on the Node, and the packet is SNATed with Node's IP after it leaves the Node with encap mode.

Reviewer: @wenyingd : please provide a correct description in your mind.

Reviewer 4: I would like to use this description with encap mode,

```
The Pod-to-external multicast traffic leaves Node from the network interface  which the default route is configured on, and the packet is SNATed. Configuration `multicastInterfaces` is not supported with encap mode.
```

Author: How about just
```
Configuration `multicastInterfaces` is not supported with encap mode.
```
The SNAT doesn't seem to be a limitation.

### Traffic in local network control block

Multicast IPs in [Local Network Control Block](https://www.iana.org/assignments/multicast-addresses/multicast-addresses.xhtml#multicast-addresses-1) (224.0.0.0/24)
should work only in Antrea encap mode. Multicast traffic destined for those addresses

> are not expected to be forwarded, therefore, no multicast route will be configured for them.

Reviewer: are -> is

Author: updated

External hosts are not supposed to send and receive traffic with those addresses either.

### Linux kernel

If the following situations apply to your Nodes, you may observe multicast traffic

> not routed correctly:

Reviewer: is not

Author: updated

1. Node kernel version under 5.4
2. Node network doesn't support IGMP snooping

> 3. Lots of inbound multicast traffic with groups that are not joined by the Pods on the local Node

Reviewer: > busy networks with lots of unresolved
> multicast routing entries, the creation of new multicast group routes
> can be extremely slow and unreliable.

Here, routing entries are on the K8s Nodes, or some underlay switch/router? In any case, I feel no need to mention this one. It is a general issue with multicast. Listing it here without enough context can be misleading.

Author: Updated.I mean on the k8s Nodes. Remove this line.
